Helen, I'm Dr. Jonathan Barker, pastor here at Amazing Grace Baptist Church in Mount area, North Carolina.
I would like to personally thank you for taking out time today to tune in to our preaching podcast.
We hope that this message will be a great encouragement to your heart today.
chapter number 12.
And I read you a few verses right here.
A couple of you have heard this.
If you're in the Young Adult Sunday School class, many of you know that I wrote a book for the Young Adult here at the church that we're teaching through right now.
And this was the second lesson in it.
But I couldn't get away from talking about it again tonight.
You know, I've never dealt with it out here as far as in the sanctuary or in a service.
So I want to give you some thoughts out of this tonight.
And I actually dealt with some
of it, one of the points of it and really just centered in on it and devotions this morning at the Sheriff's office.
Know what your Bible said in Romans 12 verse number one, he says, I beseech you therefore brethren by the mercies of God that you present your bodies a living sacrifice, holy except the one to God.
which is your reasonable service.
And I know verse two, he says, and be not conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewing of your mind that you may prove what is that good and acceptable and perfect will of God.
And the lesson that I dealt with there, and what I want to talk to you about tonight is simply just thought guarding your mind, guarding your mind and dealing with the mind tonight.
I want to say this to you, I think that we could all agree that we have mind problems from time to time.
And, you know, a lot of times we act like we've really got it all together.
But the truth of the matter is this, each one of us at some point along the way, if not on a daily basis, at least on probably a weekly basis, we deal with our mind.
And, you know, I thought about this.
I tried to stay busy.
Dad said this years ago, he said an idle mind is the devil's workshop.
And that's true tonight, man.
I read some stuff and done some study on it.
And here's one thing that Warren Wiersby said, he said, the mind is the battlefield on which the Christian's life is won or lost.
And boy, how true that is, the mind.
The devil can get you thinking about something.
Man, he can just turn your world upside down.
And I have personally before, I just had it made up in my mind that somebody hated me and was against me and was gonna split the church.
And man, sit down and talk to him and get done talking to him and realize it was all in my mind.
And our mind, didn't watch Mani said this, he said, the greatest conflict
In the Christian life is the control of the mind, controlling our mind and not allowing our mind just to overrun us.
I go through seasons every once in a while where I can't get my mind to turn off.
Has anybody ever been like that before where man it just runs and runs and runs and runs and honestly the past three or four days I've been in another one of those seasons and I go to sleep at night and man I don't have no trouble going to sleep.
Miss Leslie will tell you that.
I go to sleep on the recliner.
I go to sleep sitting in the floor.
But I have problems staying asleep.
Usually about one or one thirty, I wake up and I'm wide awake, I'm looking at the ceiling.
And my mind, a matter of fact two nights ago, I said to myself, mine, why don't you stop?
Has anybody ever been there before?
Our mind just running constantly.
And watch Manisha the greatest conflict in the Christian life is the control
of the mind.
I thought about this.
Many ever changing influences surround us in our daily lives.
Thus it is imperative to ground one's selves in God's unchanging truth.
On everything else is changing.
When our mind's running wide open, we have to go back to solid foundation.
We have to go back to something that is grounded in something that is solid.
And of course, that is the Word of God.
I'll show you four things.
I want to center in on really one of them tonight, but number one, there is the battle of the mind, the devil targets your thoughts, the battle of the mind.
I've already mentioned this a little bit, but the Bible said this in 2 Corinthians chapter number 10, verse four and five, for the weapons of our warfare are not carnal, but mighty through God to the pulling down of the strong colds.
casting down imaginations and every high thing that exalted itself against the knowledge of God and bringing into captivity every thought to the obedience of Christ.
Now know what he said for the weapons of our warfare, not carnal, but mighty through God to the pulling down of the stronghold.
Then he goes on to say,
bringing into captivity every thought to the obedience of Christ.
Now, I thought about this.
There's the whole armor of God and the Bible talks about the armor of God.
And the only offensive thing that he gives us is the Word of God.
That's it.
Everything else is a defensive tool, but the Word of God is an offensive tool.
It's the only thing that He gives us.
Now, think what He says for the weapons of our warfare, not carnal, but mighty through God to the pulling down of the stronghold.
casting down imaginations and every high thing that exalted itself against the knowledge of God and bringing into captivity every thought to the obedience of Christ.
Well, how do we do that?
The weapons of our warfare in our car, but it's through the Word of God.
It's through the Word of God and the battle of our mind.
You know, that's what Satan did in Matthew chapter number four.
He tried to get in Satan or he tried to get in Jesus' mind and offered him everything.
And how did he debunk that?
He done it with the Word of God.
So number one, I see the battle of the mind, the devil targets your thoughts.
But number two, and I want to spend a little bit of time right here, the barrier of conformity.
Don't be pressed into the mold of the world.
We see that there is the battle of the mind, but then there's the barrier of conformity and it goes back to our text.
Romans chapter number 12 verse number two, where the Bible said to us,
and be not conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewing of your mind that you may prove what is that good and acceptable and perfect will of God."
Now, know what he says, and be not conformed to this world.
Mom and Dad's sitting here, so I've got to be careful how I say this.
I wasn't having a stroke.
Something y'all thought I was having a stroke, didn't you?
But mom and dad used to say to do things, and in the backside of my mind, I would think, well, I would if you would teach me how.
If, you know, daddy would say, go do this.
And he would think that, you know, I had a college degree in mechanics and didn't have no clue what I was doing.
And then first, because it didn't do it right.
So if somebody's going shaking this head, just see him shaking this head.
If somebody's going to tell me to do something, then I need to know how to do it.
So he says this, don't be conformed to this world, or what does conformed mean?
It means this, made to resemble.
And what Paul is saying is, and be not made to resemble this world.
Now, I'm not changing the King James Bible tonight, that's just the meaning of the word, okay?
He said, you don't need to be made to resemble the world.
How many times have we been told that?
How many times have we been preached that too?
Don't look like the world, don't act like the world, don't run with the world, don't do what the world does.
Be different.
Okay, I understand that.
I think we can all come to the conclusion we understand that.
But how do I not do that?
I live in the world.
I'm around the world all the time.
I'm around negative influences all the time.
And so how do I not do that?
How am I not conformed to the world?
How am I not made to resemble the world?
Well, he tells us, but be transformed by the renewing of your mind.
That word transform means to change into another form.
So he's saying this, your mind needs to be transformed.
It needs to be changed into another form.
And I said this whenever I was teaching this and even in devotion just in the morning or this morning, the great picture of that is a caterpillar turned into a butterfly that metamorphosis that takes place and it's transformed into something else.
Now, what's he saying?
He's saying, don't be made to resemble the world, but be changed into another form.
Okay.
Well, how am I going to be changed into another form?
He goes on to tell us by the renewing of your mind.
Well, that word renew means this.
It means renovation, a complete change for the better.
A renovation or a complete change for the better.
Well, what happened when I got saved?
Therefore, if any man be in Christ, he is what a new creature, old things are passed away, behold, all things become new.
So here it is, the barrier of conformity.
How are we not conformed to this world?
We have to allow the Lord to renovate our mind and to change us into another form.
In other words, we're no longer walking after the lust of the flesh, but we're walking after the Spirit now.
We're no more walking after the world.
but we're walking after Christ.
We're no longer longing for the things of the world, but we're longing to be pleasing to Christ.
So there is this barrier of conformity.
And he says this, he says, and be not come from the world, but allow Christ to transform you.
Again, how does that transformation come when number one, it comes through salvation, but number two, it comes through the scripture, comes through the Word of God.
Again, what did Jesus do when he was tempted?
Three different times, he said this, it is written in Matthew chapter number four.
Now what did he say after that?
He said it is written and then he quoted the Old Testament.
So what is he doing?
He's doing this.
He's using the Word of God to renew his mind, to be transformed to being like God instead of the world.
And I want to say this to you today, that's a daily battle that we have to face.
That's a daily, that's the reason every day we need to start our day in the Word of God.
Every day we need to start our day in the Word of God.
Matter of fact, this morning I got up and I'm going through Proverbs again right now and I got up and I read my chapter in Proverbs this morning and my eyes tell them it's Leslie, this afternoon a couple verses, but Josh, it just, man, they just spoke to my heart.
They just spoke to my heart.
So there is the barrier of conformity.
Don't be pressed into the world's mold.
Now, I want you to see this.
Number three, not only do we see the battle of the mind and the barrier of conformity, but number three, I want you to see this, the blessing of renewal.
Oh, what did he say?
He said that we are to renew our mind.
Well, the blessing of renewal, think about this.
God transforms our thinking
through his word.
Now, I'm going to pick right up where I just stopped at and listen to what he said in Ephesians 4, 23, and be renewed in the spirit of your mind.
Now, at least what he said in Philippians chapter number two, verse number five through eight, let this mind be in you.
He's telling us what kind of mind we need to have, the blessing of renewing.
He's saying, this is the mind that you need.
Let this mind be in you, which was also in Christ Jesus.
So he's saying this, the mind that Christ had is the mind that you need to have.
Look what he says, he says, who being in the form of God, thought it not robbery to be equal with God,
but made himself of no reputation and took upon him.
Here it is, the form of a servant and was made in the likeness of man and being found in fashion as a man.
He humbled himself and became obedient under death, even the death of the cross, even the death of the cross.
So what was the mind of Christ?
Well, number one, he was the mind of a servant.
He took upon Himself the form of a servant.
What does a servant, if they're a true servant, they have one agenda in their mind.
And you know what it is?
To be pleasing to their master.
Whatever their master wants done, then that's what they want to do.
He's saying your mind needs to be like the mind of Christ and the mind of Christ was this.
It was not what He wanted to do.
But what God wanted done, matter of fact, you remember what he said when he was on the, I just thought about this.
You remember what he said when he's right before he went to the cross.
He said, when he was praying in the garden, here's what he said.
He said, Father, if it be thy will for this cup to pass, I'd appreciate it.
And I'm not quoting that verbatim, but he said, nevertheless, not my will, but thine be done.
He said, and boy, there's so much that we could say there, we could talk about the humanity of Christ and the deity of Christ in that statement.
But ultimately, what he was saying was this, my mind, I want my mind to be God's will and to do that, I have to die to my self and be renewed in him.
What did he say in chapter 12 verse number one?
Know what he says.
I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God that ye present your bodies, watch this, a living sacrifice, a living sacrifice.
My mind immediately runs back to the Old Testament.
And in the Old Testament, what did that, what was that sacrifice?
It was placed on the altar.
You know what he's saying to us?
He's saying that we are to live a life that is a life on the altar.
It's a life on the altar.
And when you're living your life on the altar, praying and talking to the Lord, you know what you're going to say?
Father, if it be your will for this, nevertheless, not my will, but don't be done.
It is the renewing of our mind and the blessing of that is this.
We walk hand in hand with Christ.
We walk in fellowship with Christ.
we live with Him and we talk with Him and we walk with Him.
So it's the blessing of renewing.
God transforms our thinking through His Word.
Christ does that.
These verses, whenever you look in Philippians chapter number two, verse number five to eight, these verses teach us to think like Christ.
Watch this.
Verse number six, He is sovereign in the form of God.
But in verse number seven,
He steps down from sovereign to servant.
In verse number eight, he steps from servant to sacrifice.
He made himself of no reputation in verse number seven.
He took upon himself the form of a servant in verse number seven.
He humbled himself in verse number seven.
He became obedient unto death in verse number eight.
Now, let's say this to you.
If our mind's going to be the right kind of mind, the blessing of renew is this, we die to our self and we're raised anew in the Lord Jesus Christ.
We die to what we ultimately want and we leave it with him for his will to be done in it.
It's not my will, but thy will.
I'm glad that he don't give me my will all the time.
I really am because if he did, boy, I'd be, I probably wouldn't be standing here today.
I'd be in a mess.
But we must learn to die to that in our mind, to our will and allow him to raise us anew in our mind, become a mind like he is.
And that mind was this, I want to be pleasing to my master.
I want to be pleasing to my master.
You know, Sunday, I've done that.
If you watched, I've done that devotion Sunday on words.
And I ended up writing a devotion also on that and sending it out to the sheriff's office this week, the devotion, not just sheriff's office, but several others get that in the county.
But I was thinking about this, when our mind is in the right place, our words will be in the right place.
If our mind is right, before we speak, we'll think,
And we'll say, Christ is displeasing to you before we type, we'll think, and you know, I said this Sunday, I said again tonight, when you say it, it's already been said, you can say, I'm sorry a million times over, but once it's said, it's said, and once you post it, it's posted.
It's posted.
It don't matter how quick you take it out.
I guarantee you somebody has already saw it.
Somebody is probably already screenshotted it.
So just be careful and it all goes back.
I'm telling you man, it all goes back to our mind, having our mind in the right place and that's with Christ.
Now note this number four and I'll be done and we'll go ice skating.
Um, and, and, and, and let me say this, when we read his word, we learned to die to ourselves and allow the mind of Christ to be in us.
Number four, now here's the blueprint for pure thought.
He goes on to give us a blueprint, Philippians chapter number four of the thoughts that we need to have.
Um, nobody says Philippians chapter four verse number eight, finally brethren, whatsoever things are true, whatsoever things are honest.
Whatsoever things are just, whatsoever things are pure.
Whatsoever things are lovely.
Whatsoever things are of a good report.
If there be any virtue and if there be any praise, think on these things.
So he gives us a blueprint for the way that our mind needs to be.
What is it?
Here's what we need to think on.
True, honest, just, pure, lovely, good report and praises.
That's why we need to think on.
Somebody brings negative things to you.
You don't even need to think on them.
He didn't tell them to shut their mouth and go on.
He just don't even think on them.
You know, he'd say the reason a lot of people's mind gets jacked up is because they get on social media and you can't believe what you see on social media.
I mean, you can't believe the news anymore.
I was supposed to have 18 inches of snow last week.
I wish we would have.
Instead of what we got now, but anyway, he's saying to us, Paul's saying, look, here's a blueprint for the way your thoughts need to be.
They need to be true thoughts.
They need to be honest.
They need to be just.
Are they pure?
Boy, that's a, that's a big one right there.
It's what you're putting into your mind pure thought.
What you're looking at, what you're listening to, what you're reading.
I'm just gonna say this and pass it.
They some guy, even some preacher says them things sometimes when you're not in church and I think in the backside of my mind, man, where's the pure in that?
What's pure?
That's what we think on.
If it's lovely, if it's of a good report, so I got some hot gossip.
I just don't need to hear it.
Is it a good report?
I got something to tell you about a preacher.
Well, if it didn't, people being saved and God bless in His church, I just don't need to hear it.
I just don't need to hear it.
And not long ago, I had a preacher call me and he said, hey, have you heard about brothers such and such?
And I said, is there church growing?
And he said, oh, no, it's not that.
I said, well, I hope you have a good afternoon.
I don't need to hear nothing else.
You said, did you?
I really did.
And if he'd have kept talking about it, I'd hung a phone up on him.
In each other, he's watching up pure thought.
It's not pure thoughts.
The thing about this is, is it a good report?
Is it virtue?
Is it praise?
He said, these are the things that we are to think on.
So there's the blueprint of thoughts tonight, think on these things.
Now, I say this and we don't have to talk about it out loud, but in the book that I wrote, there's a class discussion in which we do it in class, but I'll give you just a couple of things from this and closing tonight.
What's one source that fills your mind most each day?
And I'm sure we can see a lot of things right there.
You know, one of the things, one of the sources that fills a lot of people's mind today is the first thing that they put in it in the morning when they get up.
You know, a lot of people, as soon as they wake up in the morning, the first thing they do is go to the news and they wonder why they're depressed all day.
It's cause they went to the news and, and, and,
My momma's pointing fingers tonight, but I'm not looking.
Anyway, they go to the news.
And I'm telling you, man, first thing we can do, one source that fills your mind most each day, it should be this, it should be the Word of God.
But many times it's social media, and some people, as soon as they wake up, you know, years ago, back in the 1900s, Brother Rodney,
people smoked a lot and they kept on laying beside the bed.
I've heard people talk about it and the first thing they do in the morning when they woke up was reach over and get them a pale male and put it in their mouth and smoke it.
Some people, I know people are still this way today.
First thing you do is reach over and get a can of dip and put a dip in their mouth or a chew to the back of their mouth.
What's the first thing we're putting in to our mind each day?
I don't want to say this to you.
Man, it ought to be the Word of God.
Daddy said, that's awful.
It ought to be and he wasn't talking about it.
He wasn't talking about the Word of God.
He was talking about tobacco.
But anyway, I better clarify that and somebody was watching that.
And he's like, brother, Alex, it's awful, but the Word of God in your mind first thing in the morning.
Watch this.
It, it, it, the very first thing that we put into our mind when we're, when our mind is fresh in the morning, I'm telling you, it influences us throughout the rest of it.
You ever woke up in a good mood?
to watch the news and it be rude or to look on social media and think, well, that's just a lie.
That's in recent days, man, I've just had to go off of it because of all the junk and the lies.
I'm telling you, it's junk and lies, full of it.
And more energy is just ruin your whole day.
So watch the source that fuels your mind each day.
Here's another thing, how can we replace negative input with scripture?
How can we do that?
And I'll just give you a couple of things right here.
Number one, by reading the Bible, but number two, by listening to the Bible.
And I'll say this, by listening to a good Christian podcast, I enjoyed doing that.
Matter of fact, Tabernacle's got one out.
Tabernacle, baby, sorry.
I didn't know about it.
Brother Jake Cart was telling me about it today.
He sent it to me.
And it's the whole, every message on it's from Dr. Siler, it's years ago from Dr. Siler.
And he sent me a message today on the 12 different men and proverbs.
And man, I'm telling you, it's unreal.
But anyway, that's one way that we can help to replace negative thoughts with scripture is by listening to preaching, by listening to scriptural music, by listening to the Bible.
And then here's another thing, how does thinking biblically
change our decisions.
How does thinking biblically change our decisions?
You remember years ago, there was, some of you all remember this, some of you probably won't, but those, you know, these bracelets who went around, these shirts who went around, and all of them said, WWJD, WWJD.
Hey, you know, there's not a day in my life that goes by that I don't think about that.
And it simply means what would Jesus do?
You know, there's a lot of, I don't need no bracelet to remind me of what Jesus does, but you know what, some of them, the way they talk every once in a while, the way they act every once in a while, I wish they had a bracelet on.
I wish they had a big box in front of them that said, but anyway, what would the Lord do?
So how do we, how does thing in biblically change our decisions before we make that decision, before we say what we're going to say, before we post what we're going to post,
We think, what would Christ say about this?
What would Jesus do in this situation?
How would He react to this?
And I think that it'll help us.
Charles Spurgeon said this, he said, train your mind to dwell on the promises of God and your heart will soon follow.
Well, I thought that was a great statement.
Train your mind to dwell on the promises of God and your heart will soon
follow.
Our mind tonight, our mind tonight, I'm telling you, the devil don't have to have our mind.
We don't have to live in a confused world.
The devil is not the author of confusion and we don't have to live in a confused world.
Amen.
Our mind, let me back up and rephrase that.
We live in a confused world, but we don't have to live in a confused state.
And I'm not talking about North Carolina either, okay?
I'm talking about our state of mind.
North Carolina's confused too.
We don't have to walk around confused every day.
And why?
Because we have the Scriptures, we can die to ourselves, renew our mind in the Lord Jesus Christ, and allow Him to help.